# Welcome to the Studio Week 4!

Over the last three weeks, we’ve learned about setting up web pages, embedding maps, and building our own maps with increasing functionality. In all of the previous studios, we’ve had starter code for you to work with. This week you’ll be bringing all of your new technical skills together by creating your own HTML files and a series of maps they will contain. This week we will also be focusing more on data sources for your maps. Up to this point, we’ve been creating basic geometry by including it *within* the code of our page or by altering map tiles. This week, our code will be referencing data that we host from a variety of sources.

**What you will need:** Google account (for hosing data in a sheet), Github for hosting website and data, Mapbox account.

## Expected Outputs for this week / what to submit:

As usual, you will submit a link to your Github repo and the working website that it hosts. There are no rules about the website other than it must contain the three outputs listed below. If you want to use the basic website we’ve used in previous studios, go ahead! If you want to use the original Jekylll blog page we created, have a blast! If you want to get more creative and do something else, no problem! The map outputs for this week are:

1. Map that uses hosted GeoJSON files for data. It’s time to map some rats! Follow this fantastic Leaflet tutorial for a [Boston Rat Map](http://maptimeboston.github.io/leaflet-intro/) ([the repo for it is here](https://github.com/maptimeBoston/leaflet-intro)). It's quite easy to follow and covers downloading data, basic geographic features, styling, and interactivity. However, it uses an outdated version of some Leaflet libraries, which won’t render on Github pages. So, you’ll need to see [this Github repo]( https://github.com/Shadrock/first-leaflet-map) to learn about which lines of code to replace. I suggest you read through this repo first, to get an idea of where you’ll need to replace things, and keep it open as you work through the Rat Map tutorial. Be on the lookout for a "secret challenge" this week. Here's a hint: ["rainbow" color ramps in maps are extremely problematic](https://www.e-education.psu.edu/maps/l5_p5.html)... be on the lookout for them and possible alternatives.

2. Map that uses a Google sheet for data. Throughout this course, we’ve talked about how many international development or humanitarian organizations use spreadsheets as the fundamental format for data within their organizations. So it only makes sense to learn how to create a web map that uses a spreadsheet as its data source. Follow [this great Mapbox tutorial]( https://www.mapbox.com/impact-tools/sheet-mapper) to build you map! There are instructions in this tutorial for hosting the map on Github: be sure you add your map to the website in this repo and do not create another, separate one! 

3. Choose your own adventure! For your third map, you will create or gather your own data (using either GeoJSON or a Gsheet) and map it. Use either output #1 or #2 as a starting point. Remember that the limit for a Github pages website is 1GB, so this probably isn’t the best place to host a massive dataset. Focus on using this output as an initial prototype for a project you'd like to develop or as a way to explore or experiment with some mapping techniques that you want to improve. 
